Add July 19 issue of TMIT (#56)
tikv/website: content/blog/monthly-july-19.md

In other news, PingCAP also released 1.0 of TiDB Operator, a tool for deploying TiDB in the cloud. Release announcement in [English](https://pingcap.com/blog/database-cluster-deployment-and-management-made-easy-with-kubernetes/) and [Chinese](https://pingcap.com/blog-cn/tidb-operator-1.0-ga/)

## Reading material

Some blog posts and articles related to TiKV:

* The TiKV team launched a [training course](https://tikv.org/blog/talent-training/) covering Rust and distributed systems (English).
* Nick Cameron wrote about migrating the Rust TiKV client from [futures 0.1 to 0.3](https://www.ncameron.org/blog/migrating-a-crate-from-futures-0-1-to-0-3/) (English).
* Ana Hobden wrote on the PingCAP blog about [benchmarking distributed databases](https://www.pingcap.com/blog/why-benchmarking-distributed-databases-is-so-hard/) (English).
* Source code reading posts on [an analysis of control flow through service layers](https://pingcap.com/blog-cn/tikv-source-code-reading-9/), [Snapshot send and receive](https://pingcap.com/blog-cn/tikv-source-code-reading-10/), and [Storage and transaction control](https://pingcap.com/blog-cn/tikv-soucre-code-reading-11/) (Chinese).

## Current projects

> There's lots going on in the TiKV ecosystem, here we'll try to highlight some of the interesting projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are lots going on in the TiKV ecosystem. Here we'll try to highlight some of the interesting projects.
```

Author: "There are" doesn't match with "lots going on", should be "There is", but I prefer a more informal tone using "There's" .

```suggestion
There's lots going on in the TiKV ecosystem. Here we'll try to highlight some of the interesting projects.
```

### Performance

> There's ongoing work to measure and improve TiKV's performance in all areas. We hope to report more on specifics soon. We've been making heavy use of tools like Intel Vtune and flamegraphs to find the slowest parts of TiKV. We hope to report more on specifics soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's ongoing work to measure and improve TiKV's performance in all areas, and we've been making heavy use of tools like [Intel Vtune](https://software.intel.com/en-us/vtune) and [flame graph](http://www.brendangregg.com/flamegraphs.html) to find the slowest parts of TiKV. We hope to report more on specifics soon.
```

Author: ```suggestion
There's ongoing work to measure and improve TiKV's performance in all areas. We've been making heavy use of tools like [Intel Vtune](https://software.intel.com/en-us/vtune) and [flame graph](http://www.brendangregg.com/flamegraphs.html) to find the slowest parts of TiKV. We hope to report more on specifics soon.
```

I prefer to avoid the run-on sentence since the whole para ends up as one big sentence

### Titan

> [Titan](https://github.com/pingcap/titan) is a storage engine which improves on RocksDB. It is part of TiKV already and you can try it out by following [these instructions](https://tikv.org/docs/3.0/tasks/configure/titan/). Note that you can't go back to RocksDB after enabling Titan. We're working to improve its performance and stability. You can read more in this [blog post](https://pingcap.com/blog/titan-storage-engine-design-and-implementation/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Titan](https://github.com/pingcap/titan) is a storage engine plugin which improves on RocksDB. It is part of TiKV already and you can try it out by following [these instructions](https://tikv.org/docs/3.0/tasks/configure/titan/). We're working to improve its performance and stability. You can read more in this [blog post](https://pingcap.com/blog/titan-storage-engine-design-and-implementation/).
```

Reviewer: I think we have advertised Titan as a plug-in instead of a storage engine.

Reviewer: >  Note that you can't go back to RocksDB after enabling Titan.

This is not true. 
https://tikv.org/docs/3.0/tasks/configure/titan/#how-to-fall-back-to-rocksdb

### Protobuf implementation

We're experimenting with different implementations of Protocol Buffers (which underpin all our RPC communication). We've added support for [Prost](https://github.com/danburkert/prost) to our supporting libraries, and are working on adding support to TiKV.

### Testing and stability

We're working on making testing more reliable, adding long-running tests to our CI, and monitoring performance.

### Adding RPN functions

TiKV supports executing SQL functions on the database using its coprocessor. We've been working to support RPN (reverse polish notation) functions, which are an optimisation technique for coprocessor. In the past month we've added support for `coalesce`, `in`, `case_when`, `if`, `abs`, `multiply`, `divide`, and `date_format`. There is [more information](https://pingcap.com/blog/adding-built-in-functions-to-tikv/) about implementing coprocessor functions.

### Rust client

> We're working on implementing a [client library](https://github.com/tikv/client-rust/) for TiKV in Rust. This will support very high performance TiKV clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're working on implementing a [client library](https://github.com/tikv/client-rust/) for TiKV in Rust. This will support TiKV clients with very high performance.
```

Author: I think the original sounds more natural

Reviewer: Well, "very high performance" is a noun with an adverb and adjective as its modifiers already. So using them as the modifier for another noun (TiKV clients) does not look a balanced and natural structure to me.  This is more like a preference, not a matter of right or wrong :)  I am fine either way.

Author: I think in this case "high performance" is used as an adjective (it should probably be "high-performance", but that looks a little bit odd to me). I can't explain why the other version feels worse, maybe the "with" feels a little bit out of place?

### Compile times

Waiting for code to compile is a pain, and TiKV can take quite a while to compile (especially in release mode). We've been working hard to improve that, for example in [#4996](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/4996).

## RFCs

[RFCs](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs) (Request For Comments) are how the TiKV team engages with the wider community to do open design of new features and major changes.

Currently, the RFCs for a [Rust client](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/pull/7) and a [command line client](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/pull/21) are in the final stages of discussion. There is also an interesting [RFC](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/pull/17) to add a dedicated thread to TiKV for reading from the local raftstore, which is almost ready to be accepted.

## Notable PRs

> In [PR 5041](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/5041) we added support for [Mimalloc](https://github.com/microsoft/mimalloc), a new allocator from Microsoft. You currently have to opt-in to use it using `MIMALLOC=1` when building. Benchmarking has been inconclusive so far.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [PR 5041](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/5041), we added support for [Mimalloc](https://github.com/microsoft/mimalloc), a new allocator from Microsoft. You currently have to opt-in to use it using `MIMALLOC=1` when building. Benchmarking has been inconclusive so far.
```

> In [PR 5155](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/5155) we created a new crate inside the tikv repository called `tidb_query`, it contains large parts of the coprocessor which have been moved from `src/coprocessor/dag`. The PR also renames the `cop_xxx` crates to `tidb_query_xxx`. Due to increased parallelism, this improves compile times by up to 25%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [PR 5155](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/5155), we created a new crate inside the tikv repository called `tidb_query`, it contains large parts of the coprocessor which have been moved from `src/coprocessor/dag`. The PR also renames the `cop_xxx` crates to `tidb_query_xxx`. Due to increased parallelism, this improves compile times by up to 25%.
```

---
title: This Month in TiKV: July 2019

> date: 2019-08-07

Reviewer 2: You should add yourself as the author! :)

---

Hi! Welcome to the first ever edition of 'This Month in TiKV', covering July 2019. As the name suggests, this is a monthly newsletter covering interesting things happening in the world of [TiKV](https://tikv.org/), an open-source, distributed key-value store.

We're just getting started with the newsletter, and you should expect it to evolve as we go along. We hope to cover news and events of interest to TiKV contributors and users, significant PRs and issues in the TiKV [repo](https://github.com/tikv/tikv), and generally keep you informed of what is going on. Since this is the first issue we'll cover a few bits of news from before July.

> You'll find the newsletter [on the TiKV blog](https://tikv.org/blog/) from the first week of each month. We should have a mailing list so you can receive the newsletter by email soon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll find the newsletter [on the TiKV blog](https://tikv.org/blog/) from the first week of each month.
```

I don't think we've committed hosting a mailing list at this time. Can we commit to this later?

Author: Sure

> [Let us know](https://github.com/nrc/tmit/issues/new) what you think!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Let us know](https://github.com/tikv/website/issues/new) what you think!
```

We shouldn't be hosting this on a personal repo. Maybe better to point them at the website?

## News

> We [released version 3.0](https://tikv.org/blog/tikv-3.0ga/) of TiKV! This was a huge and exciting release, and supports the 3.0 release of [TiDB](https://pingcap.com/blog/tidb-3.0-announcement/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We [released version 3.0](https://tikv.org/blog/tikv-3.0ga/) of TiKV! This was a huge and exciting release, and is accompanied by the 3.0 release of [TiDB](https://pingcap.com/blog/tidb-3.0-announcement/).
```

> Jepsen tested TiDB and wrote a detailed [report](https://pingcap.com/blog/tidb-passes-jepsen-test-for-snapshot-isolation-and-single-key-linearizability/). This focussed on transaction guarantees and covered TiKV as the underlying system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jepsen tested TiDB and TiKV in a detailed [analysis](https://pingcap.com/blog/tidb-passes-jepsen-test-for-snapshot-isolation-and-single-key-linearizability/). This focused on transaction guarantees and failure testing.
```

> We [released](https://pingcap.com/blog/database-cluster-deployment-and-management-made-easy-with-kubernetes/) 1.0 of TiDB Operator, a tool for deploying TiDB in the cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In other news, PingCAP also [released](https://pingcap.com/blog/database-cluster-deployment-and-management-made-easy-with-kubernetes/) 1.0 of TiDB Operator, a tool for deploying TiDB clusters in the cloud.
```

## Reading material

Some blog posts and articles related to TiKV:

> * TiKV launched a [training course](https://tikv.org/blog/talent-training/) covering Rust and distributed systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The TiKV team launched a [training course](https://tikv.org/blog/talent-training/) covering Rust and distributed systems.
```

* Nick Cameron wrote about migrating the Rust TiKV client from [futures 0.1 to 0.3](https://www.ncameron.org/blog/migrating-a-crate-from-futures-0-1-to-0-3/).

> * Ana Hobden wrote on the PingCAP blog about [benchmarking distributed databases](https://www.pingcap.com/blog/why-benchmarking-distributed-databases-is-so-hard/).

Reviewer 2: Can we link to some Chinese material too? Eg https://pingcap.com/blog-cn/tikv-soucre-code-reading-11/ and https://pingcap.com/blog-cn/tikv-source-code-reading-10/ by @zhangjinpeng1987 and @disksing

## Current projects

There's lots going on in the TiKV ecosystem, here we'll try to highlight some of the interesting projects.

### Performance

> There's ongoing work to measure and improve TiKV's performance in all areas. We hope to report more on specifics soon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There's ongoing work to measure and improve TiKV's performance in all areas. We've been making heavy use of tools like Intel Vtune and flamegraphs to find the slowest parts of TiKV. We hope to report more on specifics soon.
```

### Titan

[Titan](https://github.com/pingcap/titan) is a storage engine which improves on RocksDB. It is part of TiKV already and you can try it out by enabling it in the config file:

```

> [rocksdb.titan]

Reviewer 2: It's not quite that easy, can we link them to https://tikv.org/docs/3.0/tasks/configure/titan/ ?

enabled = true
```

Note that you can't go back to RocksDB after enabling Titan. We're working to improve its performance and stability. You can read more in this [blog post](https://pingcap.com/blog/titan-storage-engine-design-and-implementation/).

### Docs

> We are currently migrating [our documentation](https://tikv.org/docs/3.0/concepts/overview/) from the TiKV's wiki to the official website.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are currently migrating [our documentation](https://tikv.org/docs/3.0/concepts/overview/) from the TiKV's wiki to the official website. We'll also be refactoring much of our documentation over the coming months. If you feel something is lacking please let us know!
```

### Replica read

> Replica read allows a database to read from a Raft follower, not just the leader. This greatly improves read performance when the client is close to a follower, but far from the leader (e.g., in different data centres). This feature is implemented in TiKV and we are working on adding support to TiDB.

Reviewer 2: What about support in our clients?

Author: I have no idea

### Protobuf implementation

We're experimenting with different implementations of Protocol Buffers (which underpin all our RPC communication). We've added support for [Prost](https://github.com/danburkert/prost) to our supporting libraries, and are working on adding support to TiKV.

### Testing and stability

We're working on making testing more reliable, adding long-running tests to our CI, and monitoring performance.

### Adding RPN functions

> TiKV supports executing SQL functions on the database using its coprocessor. We've been working to support RPN (reverse polish notation) functions, which are an optimisation technique for coprocessor. In the past month we've added support for `coalesce`, `in`, `case_when`, `if`, `abs`, `multiply`, `divide`, and `date_format`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could point them to https://pingcap.com/blog/adding-built-in-functions-to-tikv/ if they want to contribute?

### Rust client

We're working on implementing a [client library](https://github.com/tikv/client-rust/) for TiKV in Rust. This will support very high performance TiKV clients.

### Compile times

> Waiting for code to compile is a pain, and TiKV can take quite a while to compile (especially in release mode). We've been working hard to improve that, for example in [#4996](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/4996).

Reviewer 2: @brson Do we have some numbers? :)

## New contributors

We'd like to welcome the following new contributors to TiKV and thank them for their work!

* [Luca Bruno](https://github.com/lucab)
* [Luffbee](https://github.com/Luffbee)
* [jiyingtk](https://github.com/jiyingtk)
* [divinerapier](https://github.com/divinerapier)
* [Pratyush Singhal](https://github.com/psinghal20)
* [Jacob Lerche](https://github.com/jlerche)
* [mwish](https://github.com/mapleFU)
* [uvd](https://github.com/uvd)

If you'd like to get involved, we'd love to help you get started. You might be interested in tackling one of [these issues](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22D%3A+Easy%22+label%3A%22S%3A+HelpWanted%22). If you don't know how to begin, please leave a comment and somebody will help you out. We're also very keen for people to contribute documentation, tests, optimizations, benchmarks, refactoring, or other useful things.

## This Week in TiDB

> For more detailed and comprehensive information about TiDB and TiKV, we have weekly updates. The following cover July,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more rapid and detailed information about TiKV progress, PingCAP syndicates weekly updates about TiDB and TiKV. The following cover July,
```
